Hello friends, how are you all? I hope you are
all having fun.
You must have seen my previous videos. Health
related. When should you take health insurance
or from where should you take it? All things
health insurance related. I have made all the topics.
You can see them.
If you want any more knowledge about health insurance,
you
can also DM me above. Come on, today's
topic is specially brought by me for you.
Many topics have been covered in my video.
But this is an
important topic that everyone asks me about. I
want a video on it or
tell us a little about it. For this question
or your answer, whatever
experience I have, whatever I work as a mediclaim in a
hospital, I would
definitely like to share a little bit with you and whatever
daily I process
for health insurance cashless claims. If you
want any more information about it,
you can definitely approach me. Come on, it wo
n't take much time. I will go ahead and meet you.
Whatever you have or
whatever questions you have in the subject.  If you are
new to the channel, don't forget to
subscribe. Okay, let's
take a guess. Let's say you have a plan with ICICI Bank. Or you have maternity health
insurance. Now,
you have basic health
insurance. But
you
need to know whether it is personal or company-based. Now, the most
important thing is that first,
personal health insurance. If
you have taken out personal health insurance, you need to
check whether it has maternity coverage.
Now, you have taken out a policy and want to
take out a policy. Okay, you know that you have taken out a
policy. But if you have taken out a policy, then
when will you get the maternity benefit?
You should definitely check the waiting period. Secondly, the
individual plan you have taken does
not have maternity benefit,
but there are many plans in the market now that already have
maternity
benefit.
A specific plan has been made for that.
I have made a special video of it too, watch it carefully. Okay,
now the second IC lobby, do you have a
policy that is personal or your
company's? Now what is a company policy? If
you are working,
you are given an insurance through your company. It is called a
corporate plan or
company insurance. So how is it now?
When
you join the office or whatever office you are
working in, at that time
you are given an insurance plan by the
company. Mostly, it is there.
Now in some places it is not there. In some places only the
husband and wife are included. In some places, the
husband, wife, mother, father and children are all included.
It is called a family floater policy.
Now you know what your policy is.
And at the same time, there is a
maternity claim. I ICSC lobby will
tell you a basic one. At that time,
suppose your plan has
maternity benefit. In which
corporate plan, now in that
plan, you will think that
my company has taken out a policy of 5 lakhs.
I have only 5 lakhs.  It is not like there is a benefit,
but for each disease there
is a specific amount for a specific disease. Now suppose you want to have an eye
operation, there is an amount of 20 to
30 thousand. Suppose you want to have a
piles operation, there is a
specific amount for that. Your total
policy is five lakhs. This does not mean
that you have a maternity benefit of only five lakhs.
First, get this out of your head. How is it that
each policy has a
specific amount for a specific disease, that is, for delivery,
suppose you have a coverage of five thousand, seventy thousand, one lakh,
maybe one lakh, then this is the deductible, that is all
you have to spend.
Now it also covers pre-
hospitalization and
post-hospitalization. So,
now suppose you have a
policy for your child and you are in your
third or fourth month. What is your job?
Go to the nearby network hospital and check whether
whatever plan you have of ICICI Lombard is
fit for cashless claim or whether
ICICI Lombard is connected with that hospital. If
you have checked it, it
is necessary to check it and how can one  You may have
cashless facility anytime in the nine-month period. If you have
missed or missed a
payment or if you are suffering from any problem, then you have to be
hospitalized immediately.
Then check whether that company is in the network with the hospital.
Now, let's say you are in the
third or fourth month of your stay
in the network hospital. If you go
to the nearby hospital and
inquire, you will find out that your ICICI cashless
plan is suitable for cashless there.
Then you were a little worried and
relaxed, but after going there,
you come to know that
ICICI does not have a connection with the hospital. So,
you have to get reimbursement for that case.
Now,
I have also given a separate video on the channel about what reimbursement means.
Reimbursement means that
after delivery, you have to submit all the documents that are before 30 days,
before admission and before dish, to
your
company. It contains a
reimbursement form. Part A, Part
B, discharge summary, medical bill, all the
KYC documents that are there, you have to
submit them to your company. If there is a representative of Mediclaim in your office, they have to
give them to them. Okay, so this is the
process of reimbursement. Now the
cashless process is okay. Now you will understand
that there is cashless, then what
documents are required for it? I am going to tell you
how it happens. Many times I
tell you daily. I have experience that it has been
four to five years since the marriage but there is
no Aadhaar card. It has been three to four years since the marriage. There is
no marriage certificate. Do
n't do that. KYC documents are
very important. In the
policy, the main policy holder, that is, in
whose name the policy is, the same Aadhaar
card, the same PAN card, the marriage
certificate, and if you get Aadhaar
card after marriage, then PAN.  If you have a card, there is
no need for a marriage certificate, and the
medical card, which is the sonography report of the ninth month of the last,
means that you should prepare these five or six documents
properly and keep them,
or to put it simply, make a
copy and keep them in a file, because sometimes you have to be
hospitalized in an emergency, sometimes
you have to go, so
I have already told you the list of documents so that you don't have to rush.
Okay.  So what happens
when you are in your ninth month,
check again,
then check your maternity benefit,
check how much is the package of that hospital, let's
say in a hospital, it is 70 thousand for a cesarean
and your maternity benefit is only 40
thousand coverage, then you
have to pay extra or the hospital will settle it by giving a little discount,
but whatever
your maternity figure is, whatever the
amount in the policy,
you should check it later, then there can be a lot of problems.
Then suppose you have a bill of one
lakh and you have an increase of 30 thousand, then there will be a
problem. Now, one more
thing I would like to mention in this, how does it happen?
Sometimes stitches have to be put in. Look in the fourth
month, in the seventh month, after the baby has
dropped a little, look, stitches have to be put in. It is
called as astonishing.
At that time too, sometimes
you take the benefit of that policy, then
25-30 thousand rupees go into it, then it becomes minus,
but maybe you think that you have paid the
total  To get the benefit, you have to take
care of yourself, but sometimes you have to
suffer a little, so you suddenly have to be
hospitalized because
you have to take a little more care for nine months
and then you have to be hospitalized. So, for
that, you need to have a
full mediclaim for
maternity, if you have not used it before,
you need to know that the full amount is 70 Hajj. Or
sometimes it happens that you have already used Hajj
and you have come up with 30 thousand, approximately
your 60 Hajj is covered for mediclaim, the
rest you have a bill of 50 Hajj rupees, if you have come up with 80 Hajj
and 30 Hajj came, you have to pay 50 Hajj rupees,
so
how much is the maternity benefit and check the
list of documents I sent you,
prepare the list of documents,
along with one more thing,
find the network hospital first, it becomes very easy,
ICS Lombard has whatever mediclaim
card is in it
I would also like to add one more thing. Let's
see if your renewal is done in the company.
Suppose it is renewed every year in June or
August. So, it is equally important for you to know whether the policy of ICS Lambda, which was
last year, is it
continued or is it being taken care of now? Is Bajaj
taking it? Come on,
today's video has become very
big and it is for your
benefit. Share it with many people. This is a
simple Marathi video for
you.
What is the process of maternity?
How does paternity benefit work out in health insurance?
Let's meet soon. Until then,
take care. Thank you.